South African and Zambian officials committed to strengthen cooperation in trade and investment, science and technology, defence and energy following high level discussions in Pretoria on Thursday. &ldquo;We further committed to actively encourage both South African and Zambian companies to take full advantage of the excellent, historical political ties between our two countries to increase economic activities,&rdquo; said President Jacob Zuma during a joint press briefing with Zambian President Edgar Lungu at the Union Buildings. &ldquo;We further reaffirmed our commitment to focus on economic cooperation and have agreed to work together to identify specific areas in which South African and Zambian companies can do business.&rdquo; There are currently 21 agreements and memoranda of understanding between the two countries, covering a wide range of sectors. Zuma said South Africa attaches great importance to its historical relations with Zambia. &ldquo;These relations date well back to the period of our liberation struggle when Zambia sacrificially hosted the headquarters of the African National Congress in those difficult times,&rdquo; said Zuma. &ldquo;Our bilateral cooperation has grown, deepened and matured over the years. This State visit has provided an opportunity to reflect on these relations, and also to further deepen them, for the common good of our people.&rdquo; The two leaders &ldquo;noted with concern&rdquo; the drought currently ravaging the Southern African region. Earlier, the ceremonial 21-gun salute echoed from the Union Buildings as Zuma formally welcomed Lungu and his delegation to Pretoria. A jovial Zuma laughed loudly as he introduced his Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa and Cabinet ministers to Lungu. The visiting President inspected the South African National Defence Force guard of honour before the two leaders went into the closed door meeting. Lungu is accompanied by numerous cabinet ministers and Zambian media entities including the Zambia National Broadcasting Corporation, the Daily Mail and the Zambian News and Information Services.