Eskom on Tuesday said it would continue investing in transmission infrastructure, aimed at leveraging advanced technology solutions for a reliable and sustainable power grid. As one of 19 international large power grid operators (PGOs), Eskom is a member of global PGO voluntary initiative GO15, as well as a signatory of the GO15 Chief Executives&rsquo; Declaration, which was signed at the conclusion of the GO15 annual meeting, which was hosted by Eskom, in Cape Town, from November 6 to 8. The parastatal has overseen the installation of more than 6 000 km of transmission lines and 32 000 MVA of substation transformer capacity since 2005 and, since 2014, it has invested around R12-billion in transmission infrastructure and strengthening projects. &ldquo;South Africa&rsquo;s power system has progressed to a position of surplus capacity, opening opportunities to extend regional interconnections and to accommodate a changing power generation mix to grow South Africa&rsquo;s economy,&rdquo; noted Eskom chairperson Dr Baldwin Ngubane. He added that Eskom&rsquo;s partnership with the GO15 enhanced the parastatal&rsquo;s access to global expertise in transmission and system operations and allowed for the optimisation of mutual opportunities. Meanwhile, with Eskom running its own renewable-energy programme, the worldwide introduction of renewable energy has created significant complexities for grid system operators, as most of the technologies exclude necessary storage. To counter this, the GO15 is working to enhance capabilities such as demand response and renewable-energy storage to accommodate the variability of new energy sources. The GO15 recommends that regulatory frameworks and emerging technology solutions take into account the changing roles of grid operators. The GO15 also appointed Eskom transmission group executive Thava Govender as its steering board VP for 2017 and president designate for 2018. &ldquo;This vote of confidence by our members &ndash; for Eskom to lead this international organisation in 2017 and 2018 &ndash; showcases Eskom&rsquo;s leadership and technical ability as a forefront industry player and compares it to the best in the world,&rdquo; noted GO15 secretary general Alain Steven. He added that Eskom played an integral role in the group&rsquo;s steering board, governing board and five work groups, which delivered on key projects and provided innovative solutions for the transmission and system operator industry. The GO15 acknowledged that the unprecedented evolution of power supply systems required substantial investments, not only in the electricity infrastructure, but also in the increasingly sophisticated information technology sector. Such investments by GO15 members and associated partners are estimated to exceed $1-trillion dollars over the next 15 years. &ldquo;This evolution requires in-depth cooperation among the main actors of the electricity domain, including government, regulators, distribution system operators, [PGOs] and suppliers of critical technologies and equipment,&rdquo; Steven added. The 19 GO15 PGOs deliver electricity to more than half the world&rsquo;s population, accounting for more than two-thirds of global electricity consumption, representing the backbone connecting electricity producers and consumers.