From Creamer Media in Johannesburg, this is the Real Economy Report. Sashnee Moodley:&nbsp; Anglo American Platinum has piloted the electrification of 34 households using a methanol-based fuel cell microgrid over the past 28 months. It will decommission the field trial next month. Schalk Burger has the details. Schalk Burger: Amplats started the field trial in July 2014, and used three commercially available 5 kW fuel cells that charge a 73 kWh battery bank to power the Naledi community, in the Maokeng township in Kroonstad. Amplats principal market development manager Angelin Maharaj said the field trial demonstrated the feasibility of providing basic electricity services to off-grid communities for household purposes. The deployment of fuel cell microgrids in rural communities also has the potential to supply electricity for small community businesses, refrigeration for vaccines and for irrigation in agriculture, he said. The detailed data generated and lessons learned from the field trial would enable Amplats and its partners to design off-grid systems more accurately, reducing the size of the overall system and capital and operational costs. Angelin Maharaj provides further details. Amplats principal market development manager Angelin Maharaj: &nbsp; Sashnee Moodley: Other news making headlines this week: New holdings group unveils prototype point-of-entry water filtration system And, an emotional Molefe weighs judicial review and future after damning Public Protector report CrossAfrica Holdings unveils its new Cleansui water filtration system prototype under its newly established standalone subsidiary CrossAfrica Water Solutions. South African water expert Dr Anthony Turton &nbsp; Eskom CEO Brian Molefe has indicated that he is weighing his future options as head of the State-owned electricity producer following the release of a Public Protector report. Eskom CEO Brian Molefe &nbsp; Sashnee Moodley: That&rsquo;s Creamer Media&rsquo;s Real Economy Report. Join us again next week for more news and insight into South Africa&rsquo;s real economy.