Air Seychelles has established a new direct route to Durban, in KwaZulu-Natal set to open on March 30, 2017. Travellers can already buy tickets with round-trip economy class fares starting from R5 000 and business class fares starting from R15 000. Air Seychelles&rsquo; new Durban route will operate twice weekly on an Airbus A320 aircraft in a two-cabin configuration. Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs MEC Sihle Zikalala noted that the increased air connectivity from the Seychelles would prompt additional growth for the countries&#39; tourism businesses and, therefore, their economies. &ldquo;The increased direct air connectivity that Air Seychelles opens up to KwaZulu-Natal is certainly exciting, especially given the further linkages this will provide to destinations in India and Europe,&rdquo; he added. The additional connectivity that Air Seychelles will provide for countries like India and Germany will enable Durban travellers to seamlessly reach new borders, opening and amplifying new business opportunities for the province. Air Seychelles CEO Roy Kinnear noted that the commencement of nonstop flights to Durban would establish a second air bridge between Seychelles and South Africa, complementing the company&rsquo;s five-flights-a-week service to Johannesburg. &ldquo;The new service will provide business and leisure travellers, who have trade ties to Seychelles or holiday on the islands, with more travel choice and convenience.&rdquo; In addition to strengthening air connections to South Africa, Air Seychelles plans to launch a two-flights-a-week service to D&uuml;sseldorf, Germany, in March 2017. It also plans to upgrade its Paris service with an additional fourth trip a week, and to substantially increase capacities on its regional network. To support the fleet requirements of this expansion, the airline will take delivery of a second Airbus A330, which will be flown to Europe and used to upgrade selected regional flights currently using an A320 aircraft. An A330 aircraft will operate in Johannesburg on Thursdays, Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays, while Air Seychelles&rsquo; Mauritius route will upgrade to using the A330 on one return flight a week on Saturdays. The airline&rsquo;s Mumbai route will make use of an A330 on Sundays. All three routes will continue to be operated on a five-flights-a-week basis, with the remaining flights operating on Airbus A320 aircraft.