The South African government has decided that the South African Nuclear Energy Corporation (Necsa) will be the owner/operator of the planned new Multi-Purpose Reactor (MPR) and the proposed future nuclear fuel cycle. National electricity utility Eskom will be the owner/operator of the planned fleet of new nuclear power plants (NPPs). These decisions were taken during the Cabinet meeting held on November 2. These decisions alter a previous Cabinet decision, taken on June 10 last year, that made Necsa the procurement agency for the new NPPs. At that time, this decision was taken in order to free Eskom to focus on its troubled Medupi and Kusile coal-fired power stations and Ingula pumped storage hydroelectric power station. Now, Eskom regains responsibility for the new NPPs. Policy setting and coordination of the new nuclear programme will be the responsibility of the Department of Energy. &ldquo;I am really pleased that this important development has been confirmed by Cabinet,&rdquo; said Necsa board chairman Dr Kelvin Kemm. &ldquo;It means that Eskom and Necsa will be working together in the procurement of the major new nuclear power fleet.&rdquo; &ldquo;This is a wonderful opportunity for Necsa and for South Africa,&rdquo; affirmed Necsa CEO Phumzile Tshelane. &ldquo;Necsa has fabricated fuel elements of this type in the past and it is a great opportunity for the country, for us to be able to make such a major contribution to this valuable industrial expansion.&rdquo; The MPR, with a planned power capacity of 20 MW, will replace the now 51-year-old SAFARI-1 research reactor, which is used for the production of medical radioisotopes (exported to more than 60 countries) and other commercial products, as well as research and development. Thanks to SAFARI-1, South Africa has the second largest market share in the global nuclear medicine supplies market. Regarding the nuclear fuel cycle, the &ldquo;control of the development and supply of nuclear fuel is an incredibly important factor in delivering low cost nuclear power,&rdquo; observed Kemm. &ldquo;Currently, an imported fuel element costs about R40-million and a reactor typically uses more than 150 such elements per reload.&rdquo;