International law firm Pinsent Masons is formally establishing its African office in Johannesburg, from where it plans to pursue continental opportunities in the areas of infrastructure, energy and technology. The firm, which is domiciled in the UK, is a specialist infrastructure practice employing more than 2 900 people globally, including over 1 500 lawyers. A founding African office partner Rob Morson tells Engineering News Online that the firm will begin operating officially in February, but that seven partners have already been recruited, together with seven construction and project lawyers. The team, he says, is equipped to offer the full spectrum of legal advice in support of infrastructure clients, from corporate transactions to construction law, including project advisory services and dispute settlements. It is also able to draw on Pinsent Masons&rsquo; network in Europe to service Francophone and Lusophone African clients. Besides Morson and his fellow founding partners Shane Voigt, who joined from Bowmans, and George Sibanda, previously of Webber Wentzel, the other partners are Deidr&eacute; Simaan, also formerly of Webber Wentzel, Claire Barclay formerly of Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr, as well as Daniella Zussa and Junaid Banoobhai, from Bowmans. The practice will not focus only on the traditional infrastructure sectors of road and rail, power stations and harbours, but will also pursue prospects in healthcare and technology infrastructure. &ldquo;There is a natural synergy between the infrastructure, energy and technology sectors. For example, global clients that deliver energy projects overlap these sectors and large technology firms are showing an increasing interest in Africa, which means they are looking to establish data centres across the continent to support their growth ambitions,&rdquo; Morson explains. However, a good deal of focus is likely to be on oil and gas, as well as power opportunities, with most countries in Africa pursuing conventional and renewable-energy programmes. Pinsent Masons is also closely monitoring developments surrounding South Africa&rsquo;s proposed nuclear procurement programme, with the UK practice heavily involved with the Hinkley Point C project, in Somerset, England. &ldquo;South Africa offers an ideal hub from which to service South African clients inside South Africa and in the rest of the continent, as well as to support those multinational companies that are pursuing their African strategies from South Africa,&rdquo; Morson explains. However, the firm is also paying close attention to developments in East Africa, which has become increasingly vibrant, and it may consider building a presence in that region in future. &ldquo;Despite the recent economic slowdown, there is still a big focus on Africa and the decision by Pinsent Masons to establish a presence in Sandton is driven not so much by a desire to acquire South African clients, as it is to position the firm strategically for the opportunities that are arising across the continent.&rdquo;